[Music]
ten founders of worldwide brands who
don't usually show their faces some
founders of famous brands enjoy their
fame and can be seen on magazine covers
all over the world but there are also
those who prefer to stay out of the
spotlight their success stories are just
as impressive and we'd like to share
them with you take a look at the people
who created the things that we use every
day
Nike phil knight young Phil Knight and
his coach Bill Bowerman both loved
running the quality of running shoes
that were sold in the u.s. in the 60s
wasn't good enough for them and that's
how they created the Blue Ribbon sports
company to sell Japanese sneakers in the
US this company is now called Asics over
time it was becoming harder and harder
to work with suppliers so Phil and bill
decided to create their own brand of
sneakers Bowerman designed them and the
waffle like design was created when the
coach looked at his wife's waffle iron
in 1978 the company got its official
name Nike and their famous logo night
didn't like the word Nike he wanted to
name the company something else by the
way
Knight tells all about these events in
his book show dog
[Music]
Starbucks Howard Schultz in the
beginning Starbucks was opened in 1971
as a store that sold coffee beans and
equipment in Seattle and only in 1987
when the company was bought by Howard
Schultz the owner of ill Giornale the
place finally started to turn into a
real coffee shop Howard was inspired by
the atmosphere of Italian espresso bars
and it's safe to say that he was the one
who made the espresso based beverages
popular in the US now you can find a
Starbucks almost anywhere in the world
Zarah Amancio Ortega
Amancio started his business in the 70s
he made nightgowns and bathrobes with
his wife right in their living room once
their German partner declined a huge
order and the spouses decided to sell
the clothes on their own they opened
their first store in 1975 in La coruña
Spain the business went very well the
company decided to follow the concept of
instant fashion when new and trendy
clothes appeared in the stores every two
weeks later the company was renamed to
intense attacks and open new clothing
stores Massimo Dutti Poland bear boy
show Zara home ooh tearaway Stradivarius
Lefty's and versa
according to Forbes Amancio Ortega is
the richest person in the world Pandora
pair and Nevelson and Winnie and
Nevelson in 1982 the enabled s'en family
opened a small jewelry store in
Copenhagen they imported jewelry from
Thailand and sold it by 1987 their
company was already quite big so they
decided to create jewelry of their own
design but it took more than ten years
before pandora became famous in 2000 the
charm bracelet was created buyers were
able to create jewelry of their own
design by putting the charms they wanted
on the bracelet since then the company
has been growing and the inevitable
Isha's people in Denmark
Ferraro Nichelle Ferraro in 1957
Michelle inherited a family business
creating a chocolate paste with nuts the
man was very passionate about it in
order to create new products he thought
about a collective image of an Italian
housewife and asked simple questions
what does she buy for her and her
children what does she like this is how
he created Kinder Surprise chocolate
eggs he figured that kids like chocolate
and parents made them drink milk so he
combined these products he created
Ferrero Rocher and Raffaello sweets and
he improved the recipe of chocolate
spread and gave it a more recognizable
name Nutella Michelle noticed that
American women cared about their weight
and wanted to make a good impression for
them he created the famous tic-tac which
only has two calories
Michelle lived a long life and died at
the age of 89 leaving his children the
brand that people all around the world
know and love today Hard Rock Cafe Isaac
Tigre and Peter Morton this worldwide
famous cafe chain has an interesting
history in 1969 the musicians from the
doors were recording the album Morrison
Hotel at about the same time they
accidentally came across a diner named
Hard Rock Cafe and their album was
exactly in this music style they made a
few pictures in this cafe and then put
the photos on the back side of the album
cover a year later two Englishmen called
them Isaac Tigre tan Peter Morton and
asked them to let them open a cafe in
London named Hard Rock Cafe the
musicians didn't object and soon the
cafe started developing really fast
Lacoste Rene Lacoste
this worldwide famous brand was not made
by a fashion designer it was created by
a French tennis player in the 1920s
people played tennis in long-sleeve
shirts in 1926 tennis player Rene
Lacoste sewed a short sleeved shirt for
one of the tournaments he sewed it
himself
Rene had a nickname alligator because he
always destroyed his competitors if they
made a mistake this is how a small
crocodile appeared on the shirt it
became the logo of the company in 1933
Rene founded a company that made shirts
for tennis golf and sailing lego olie
kirk christiansen
at the beginning of the 1930s olie kirk
opened a company that made ironing
boards and ladders but he soon started
making wooden toys the word lego
consists of two Danish words leg play
and got good in 1947 the toys became
plastic and had special parts that
allowed children's who connect them
together this is how the lego we know
today appeared it is interesting that
the elements of lego are compatible with
each other in all of their forms the
shape and the design changed but the
attachment parts have always been the
same that's why you can always combine
modern parts with the first ones ever
created
oleh died when he was 66 years old and
his four sons inherited the company
Google Larry Page and Sergey Brin the
company was created by two students from
Stanford University Larry Page and
Sergey Brin in 1998 they founded a
company and registered the google.com
domain the name Google was made from the
English word Google that means a number
with a hundred zeros now we use the
search engine every day
[Music]
Instagram Kevin Systrom the worldwide
famous service was made by another
Stanford University student Kevin
Systrom this guy loved photography and
even went to Florence wants to find out
more about this art a teacher showed him
a Holga camera that made square photos
in retro style later Kevin found
investors and he and Mike Krieger
started developing their own photo
service they needed to make something
unique but simple to use Systrom
remembered the cheap camera from
florence and was inspired to create
filters this is how the first filter ex
pro 2 was made two years after the
launch of the application Facebook
bought it for 1 billion dollars
instagram has become something more than
just an application and regardless of
whether you love it or hate it
you have to admit it's huge who else
would you like to add to the list share
with us in the comments don't forget to
click Subscribe and stay on the bright
side of life
you